Fusion frequency tables (#49)
PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPBTA-analysis: analyses/fusion-frequencies/README.md

  - Count the total number of samples in the `cancer_group_cohort` that are also in the `../independent-samples/results/independent-specimens.wgs.primary.tsv`, and call this number `Primary_tumors_in_dataset`.
  - `Frequency_in_primary_tumors = Total_primary_tumors_alterated / Primary_tumors_in_dataset`.

- `Frequency_in_relapse_tumors`:
  - For each unique variant, count the number of samples (identified by `Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID`) that are in the `../independent-samples/results/independent-specimens.wgs.relapse.tsv`, and call this number `Total_relapse_tumors_alterated`.
  - Count the total number of samples in the `cancer_group_cohort` that are also in the `../independent-samples/results/independent-specimens.wgs.relapse.tsv`, and call this number `Relapse_tumors_in_dataset`.
  - `Frequency_in_relapse_tumors = Total_relapse_tumors_alterated / Relapse_tumors_in_dataset`.

Format the SNV mutation frequency table according to the latest spreadsheet that is attached in <https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/ticket-tracker/issues/64>.

> Merge the SNV mutation frequency tables of all `cancer_group_cohort`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merge the fusion frequency tables of all `cancer_group_cohort`s.
```

### Results

> Results are generated using PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis data release v5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Results are generated using PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis data release v6.
```

> `results/snv-consensus-annotated-mut-freq.tsv` is the merged Fusion frequency table for all `cancer_group_cohort`s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The merged fusion frequency table of all `cancer_group_cohort`s is output in TSV and JSON formats using `readr::write_tsv()` and `jsonlite::write_json()` respectively.

- `results/putative-oncogene-fusion-annotated-freq.json`
- `results/putative-oncogene-fusion-annotated-freq.tsv`
```

  - `Frequency_in_relapse_tumors = Total_relapse_tumors_alterated / Relapse_tumors_in_dataset`.

Format the SNV mutation frequency table according to the latest spreadsheet that is attached in <https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/ticket-tracker/issues/64>.

Merge the fusion frequency tables of all `cancer_group_cohort`s.

### Results

Results are generated using PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis data release v6.

The merged fusion frequency table of all `cancer_group_cohort`s is output in TSV and JSON formats using `readr::write_tsv()` and `jsonlite::write_json()` respectively.

- `results/putative-oncogene-fusion-annotated-freq.json`
- `results/putative-oncogene-fusion-annotated-freq.tsv`

### Analysis scripts

### `fusion-frequencies.R`
This script annotates each FusionName with occurence of Fusion_Type and frequencies in each cancer_cohort in dataset, primary and relapse.

Usage:

```bash
Rscript --vanilla '01-fusion-frequencies.R'

```

Input:

- `../../data/histologies.tsv`
- `../fusion_filtering/results/fusion-putative-oncogenic.tsv`
- `../independent-samples/results/independent-specimens.wgs.primary.tsv`

> - `../independent-samples/results/independent-specimens.wgs.relapse.tsv`

Reviewer: Should we use `eachcohort` independent sample lists that are updated in the `independent-samples` module?

```suggestion
- `../independent-samples/results/independent-specimens.rnaseq.primary.tsv`
- `../independent-samples/results/independent-specimens.rnaseq.relapse.tsv`
```

Author: ok updating!

Reviewer: Thank you for updating!

## Annotate SNV table with mutation frequencies

Adapted from [snv-frequencies](https://github.com/logstar/OpenPedCan-analysis/tree/snv-freq/analyses/snv-frequencies)
**Module author:** Yuanchao Zhang ([@logstar](https://github.com/logstar))

Adapted by Krutika Gaonkar ([@kgaonkar6](https://github.com/kgaonkar6)) 

### Purpose
Uses `fusion-putative-oncogenic.tsv` and a `Alt_ID` for each `FusionName` and `Fusion_Type` concatenated by "_" OR Fused Gene to count occurence in  each cancer_group in a given dataset, primary or relapse cohorts.

Each gene invloved in the fusion is annotated by a Gene_Position, for example:
 - In a genic fusion where both breakpoints are within gene body the Gene_Position `Gene1A` will be the 5` gene and Gene1B will be 3` gene
 - In an intergenic fusion where one or both breakpoint are outside the gene body, if the 5` breakpoint is a region between GeneX and GeneY  the Gene_Position of GeneX will be Gene1A, for GeneY will be Gene2A and their 3` breakpoint is within GeneE will be denoted as Gene_Position `Gene1B`.

>  - In an intergenic fusion where one or both breakpoint are outside the gene body, if the 3` breakpoint is within GeneE the Gene_Position of GeneE will be Gene1A and the 5` breakpoint is within GeneY and GeneZ, Gene Y will be denoted as Gene_Position `Gene1B` and GeneZ will be denoted as `Gene2B`.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - In a genic fusion where both breakpoints are within gene body the Gene_Position `Gene1A` will be the 5' gene and Gene1B will be 3' gene
 - In an intergenic fusion where one or both breakpoint are outside the gene body, if the 5' breakpoint is a region between GeneX and GeneY  the Gene_Position of GeneX will be Gene1A, for GeneY will be Gene2A and their 3' breakpoint is within GeneE will be denoted as Gene_Position `Gene1B`.
 - In an intergenic fusion where one or both breakpoint are outside the gene body, if the 3' breakpoint is within GeneE the Gene_Position of GeneE will be Gene1A and the 5' breakpoint is within GeneY and GeneZ, Gene Y will be denoted as Gene_Position `Gene1B` and GeneZ will be denoted as `Gene2B`.   
```

Thank you for the explanations @kgaonkar6 !

```text
Maybe change ` to ' to avoid GitHub from rendering monospace without the `.
```
